# signal-optimization-for-wireless-information-and-power-transmission

Wireless communication networks (based on radio-frequency RF radiation) underpin the global functioning of our societies. Wireless is however not limited to communication and can be used for energy harvesting. Importantly, wireless power somewhat comes for free in nowadays wireless networks. Indeed, the existing wireless communication infrastructure is based on RF radiation and therefore pumps RF energy into the free space. Unfortunately, current wireless networks have been designed for communication purposes only and therefore do not make use of the RF radiation for the other purpose of energizing devices. 

This calls for a paradigm shift in wireless network design and brings the central question of this project: How to design a unified architecture to make the best use of the RF spectrum to communicate and energize devices wirelessly? Answering this question would enable a truly mobile internet, such that devices with a communication capability can experience a true ubiquitous wireless connectivity and enable wireless devices to efficiently harvest the (otherwise wasted) RF radiation. While receiver design for wireless power transfer has been relatively well researched, the design of transmitter (e.g. waveforms) is much less known. In the project, the student will investigate how to embed information in a wireless power waveform so as to deliver the largest amount of energy to the receiver but at the same time communicate with that receiver. 

